README.md, before:

# Overview

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap) [![docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/doc-v0.9.7-green.svg)](http://binaryanalysisplatform.github.io/bap/api/v0.9.7/Bap.Std.html) [![docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/doc-master-green.svg)](http://binaryanalysisplatform.github.io/bap/api/master/Bap.Std.html)

BAP is a platform for binary analysis. It is written in OCaml, but can
be used from other languages, for example, from Python.

# <a name="Installation"></a>Installation

BAP is released using `opam` package manager. After you've successfully
[installed](https://opam.ocaml.org/doc/Install.html) opam, do the following:

```bash
$ opam init --comp=4.02.1
$ eval `opam config env`
$ opam install depext
$ opam depext bap
$ opam install bap
```
And if you're interested in python bindings, then you can install them using pip:

```bash
$ pip install git+git://github.com/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap.git
```

# Usage

## Using from OCaml

There're two ways to use BAP. Compile your own application, and use
BAP library, or write a plugin, that can still use the library, but
will also get an access to decompiled binary. For the latter, write
your plugin in OCaml using your
[favorite text editor](https://github.com/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap/wiki/Emacs)
:
```sh
$ cat mycode.ml
open Bap.Std
let main project = print_endline "Hello, World"
let () = Project.register_plugin' main
```

Next, build it with our `bapbuild` tool:

```sh
$ bapbuild mycode.plugin
```

After this you can load your plugin with `-l` command line option, and
get an immediate access to the decompiled binary:

```sh
$ bap /bin/ls -lmycode
```

`bapbuild` can compile a standalone applications, not only plugins. In
fact, `bapbuild` underneath the hood is an `ocamlbuild` utility extended
with our rules an flags. To compile a standalone binary,

```bash
$ bapbuild mycoolprog.native
```

If `bapbuild` complains that something is missing, make sure that you
didn't skip the [Installation](#Installation) phase. You can add your
own dependencies with a `-pkg` or `-pkgs` command line options:

```bash
$ bapbuild -pkg lwt mycoolprog.native
```

If you use your own build environment, please make sure that you have
added `bap` as a dependency. We install our libraries using
`ocamlfind` and you just need to add `bap` to your project. For
example, if you use `oasis`, then you should add `bap` to the
`BuildDepends` field. If you are using `ocamlbuild` with the
`ocamlfind` plugin, then you should add `package(bap)` or `pkg_bap` to
your `_tags` file.


## Using from top-level

It maybe a good idea to learn how to use our library by playing in an
OCaml top-level. If you have installed `utop`, then you can just use
our `baptop` script to run `utop` with `bap` extensions:

```bash
$ baptop
```

Now, you can play with BAP. For example:

```ocaml
utop # open Bap.Std;;
utop # let d = disassemble_file "/bin/ls";;
val d : t = <abstr>
utop # let insn = Disasm.insn_at_addr d (Addr.of_int32 0xa9dbl);;
val insn : (mem * insn) option = Some (0000a9d8: 01 00 00 0a , beq #0x4; Bcc(0x4,0x0,CPSR))
let blk = Disasm.blocks d |> Table.elements |> Seq.hd_exn;;
val blk : block = [991c, 9923]
utop # Block.leader blk;;
- : insn = push {r3, lr}; STMDB_UPD(SP,SP,0xe,Nil,R3,LR)
utop # Block.terminator blk |> Insn.bil;;
- : Bap_types.Std.bil = [LR = 0x9924:32; jmp 0x9ED4:32]
```

If you do not want to use `baptop` or `utop`, then you can execute the following
in any OCaml top-level:

```ocaml
# #use "topfind";;
# #require "bap.top";;
# open Bap.Std;;
```

And everything should work just out of box, i.e. it will load all the
dependencies, install top-level printers, etc.

## Using from Python

After BAP and python bindings are properly installed, you can start to
use it:

```python
    >>> import bap
    >>> print '\n'.join(insn.asm for insn in bap.disasm("\x48\x83\xec\x08"))
        decl    %eax
        subl    $0x8, %esp
```

A more complex example:

```python
    >>> img = bap.image('coreutils_O0_ls')
    >>> sym = img.get_symbol('main')
    >>> print '\n'.join(insn.asm for insn in bap.disasm(sym))
        push    {r11, lr}
        add     r11, sp, #0x4
        sub     sp, sp, #0xc8
        ... <snip> ...
```

For more information, read builtin documentation, for example with
`ipython`:

```python
    >>> bap?
```

## Using from shell

Bap is shipped with `bap` utility that can disassemble files, and
printout dumps in different formats, including plain text, json, dot,
html. The example of `bap` output is:

```asm
  begin(to_uchar)
      0000a004: 04 b0 2d e5    str r11, [sp, #-4]! ; STR_PRE_IMM(SP,R11,SP,0xfffffffc,0xe,Nil)
      0000a008: 00 b0 8d e2    add r11, sp, #0x0   ; ADDri(R11,SP,0x0,0xe,Nil,Nil)
      0000a00c: 0c d0 4d e2    sub sp, sp, #0xc    ; SUBri(SP,SP,0xc,0xe,Nil,Nil)
      0000a010: 00 30 a0 e1    mov r3, r0          ; MOVr(R3,R0,0xe,Nil,Nil)
      0000a014: 05 30 4b e5    strb r3, [r11, #-5] ; STRBi12(R3,R11,0xfffffffb,0xe,Nil)
      0000a018: 05 30 5b e5    ldrb r3, [r11, #-5] ; LDRBi12(R3,R11,0xfffffffb,0xe,Nil)
      0000a01c: 03 00 a0 e1    mov r0, r3          ; MOVr(R0,R3,0xe,Nil,Nil)
      0000a020: 00 d0 8b e2    add sp, r11, #0x0   ; ADDri(SP,R11,0x0,0xe,Nil,Nil)
      0000a024: 00 08 bd e8    ldm sp!, {r11}      ; LDMIA_UPD(SP,SP,0xe,Nil,R11)
      0000a028: 1e ff 2f e1    bx lr               ; BX_RET(0xe,Nil)
  end(to_uchar)
```

```ocaml
  begin(to_uchar) {
    mem := mem with [SP - 0x4:32, el]:u32 <- R11
    SP := SP - 0x4:32
    R11 := SP
    SP := SP - 0xC:32
    R3 := R0
    mem := mem with [R11 - 0x5:32, el]:u8 <- low:8[R3]
    temp_2303 := mem[R11 - 0x5:32, el]:u8
    R3 := pad:32[temp_2303]
    R0 := R3
    SP := R11
    orig_base_2309 := SP
    R11 := mem[orig_base_2309, el]:u32
    SP := SP + 0x4:32
    jmp LR
  }
```

Also we're shipping a `bap-mc` executable that can disassemble
arbitrary strings and output them in a plethora of formats. Read
`bap-mc --help` for more information. `bap-byteweight` utility can be
used to evaluate our `byteweight` algorithm for finding symbols inside
the binary. It is also a supporting toolkit for byteweight
infrastructure, it can download, create and install binary signatures,
used for identification.


## Using from other languages

BAP exposes most of its functionality using `JSON`-based RPC protocol,
specified
[Public API Draft](https://github.com/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap/wiki/Public-API-%5Bdraft%5D)
doument. The protocol is implemented by `bap-server` program that is
shipped with bap by default. You can talk with server using `HTTP`
protocol, or extend it with any other transporting protocol you would
like.

## Extending BAP

We're always welcome for any contributions. If you want to add new
code, or fix a bug, feel free to clone us, and create a pull request.

But BAP can also be extended in a non invasive way, using plugin
system. That means, that you can use `bap` library, to extend the
`bap` library! See our
[blog](http://binaryanalysisplatform.github.io/bap_plugins/) for more
information.

## Learning BAP

Other than [API](http://binaryanalysisplatform.github.io/bap/api/v0.9.7/Bap.Std.html) documentation, we have [blog](http://binaryanalysisplatform.github.io/bap_plugins/) and
[wiki](https://github.com/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap/wiki/), where you
can find some useful information. Also, we have a permanently manned
chat in case of emergency. Look at the badge on top of the README file,
and feel free to join.

# License

Please see the `LICENSE` file for licensing information.

Commit message:

Cleaner error handling and some bug fixes.
Errors from plugins are now expressed in a more clean way. One can use
functions, that return `Or_error.t` to get the default error handling,
or to catch them itself, to get a full control.

Fixed passing options to plugins. Now the system will load a transitive
closure of dependencies before the command line parsing stage, cleanup
the plugin options from the command line and pass it to the main
utility.

ARM lifter now handles new instruction `svc` it is mapped to a `CpuExn`
statement. Also, slightly changed the printing of the `CpuExn`. It is
now printed with `interrupt` instead of previous `int`. (Much easier to
grep and more readable).

Fixed bug in IR lifter, when fall-through jumps were lost for regular
basic block without jumps at all.

Fixed fixpoint function. For some reason the book algorithm with one
comparison check doesn't work.

Fixed sections allocation in Image. Previously, they all were allocated
with a zero offset.

Updated documentation and README.

README.md, after:

# Overview

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap) [![docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/doc-v0.9.8-green.svg)](http://binaryanalysisplatform.github.io/bap/api/v0.9.8/Bap.Std.html) [![docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/doc-master-green.svg)](http://binaryanalysisplatform.github.io/bap/api/master/Bap.Std.html)

BAP is a platform for binary analysis. It is written in OCaml, but can
be used from other languages.

# <a name="Installation"></a>Installation

BAP is released using `opam` package manager. After you've successfully
[installed](https://opam.ocaml.org/doc/Install.html) opam, do the following:

```bash
$ opam init --comp=4.02.1
$ eval `opam config env`
$ opam install depext
$ opam depext bap
$ opam install bap
```
And if you're interested in python bindings, then you can install them using pip:

```bash
$ pip install git+git://github.com/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap.git
```

# Usage

## Using from OCaml

There're two ways to use BAP: compile your own stand-alone
application, and use BAP library, or write a plugin, that can still
use the library, but will also get an access to decompiled binary, as
well as intergration with tools and other plugins. For the latter,
write your plugin in OCaml using your
[favorite text editor](https://github.com/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap/wiki/Emacs)
:

```sh
$ cat hello_world.ml
open Bap.Std let main project =
print_endline "Hello, World"
let () = Project.register_pass "hello-world" main
```

Next, build it with our `bapbuild` tool:

```sh
$ bapbuild hello_world.plugin
```

After this you can load your plugin with `-l` command line option, and
get an immediate access to the decompiled binary:

```sh
$ bap /bin/ls -lhello-world
```

`bapbuild` can compile a standalone applications, not only plugins. In
fact, `bapbuild` underneath the hood is an `ocamlbuild` utility extended
with our rules an flags. To compile a standalone binary,

```bash
$ bapbuild mycoolprog.native
```

If `bapbuild` complains that something is missing, make sure that you
didn't skip the [Installation](#Installation) phase. You can add your
own dependencies with a `-pkg` or `-pkgs` command line options:

```bash
$ bapbuild -pkg lwt mycoolprog.native
```

If you use your own build environment, please make sure that you have
added `bap` as a dependency. We install our libraries using
`ocamlfind` and you just need to add `bap` to your project. For
example, if you use `oasis`, then you should add `bap` to the
`BuildDepends` field. If you are using `ocamlbuild` with the
`ocamlfind` plugin, then you should add `package(bap)` or `pkg_bap` to
your `_tags` file.


## Using from top-level

It maybe a good idea to learn how to use our library by playing in an
OCaml top-level. If you have installed `utop`, then you can just use
our `baptop` script to run `utop` with `bap` extensions:

```bash
$ baptop
```

Now, you can play with BAP. For example:

```ocaml
utop # open Bap.Std;;
utop # let d = disassemble_file "/bin/ls";;
val d : t = <abstr>
utop # let insn = Disasm.insn_at_addr d (Addr.of_int32 0xa9dbl);;
val insn : (mem * insn) option = Some (0000a9d8: 01 00 00 0a , beq #0x4; Bcc(0x4,0x0,CPSR))
let blk = Disasm.blocks d |> Table.elements |> Seq.hd_exn;;
val blk : block = [991c, 9923]
utop # Block.leader blk;;
- : insn = push {r3, lr}; STMDB_UPD(SP,SP,0xe,Nil,R3,LR)
utop # Block.terminator blk |> Insn.bil;;
- : Bap_types.Std.bil = [LR = 0x9924:32; jmp 0x9ED4:32]
```

If you do not want to use `baptop` or `utop`, then you can execute the following
in any OCaml top-level:

```ocaml
# #use "topfind";;
# #require "bap.top";;
# open Bap.Std;;
```

And everything should work just out of box, i.e. it will load all the
dependencies, install top-level printers, etc.

## Using from Python

After BAP and python bindings are properly installed, you can start to
use it:

```python
    >>> import bap
    >>> print '\n'.join(insn.asm for insn in bap.disasm("\x48\x83\xec\x08"))
        decl    %eax
        subl    $0x8, %esp
```

A more complex example:

```python
    >>> img = bap.image('coreutils_O0_ls')
    >>> sym = img.get_symbol('main')
    >>> print '\n'.join(insn.asm for insn in bap.disasm(sym))
        push    {r11, lr}
        add     r11, sp, #0x4
        sub     sp, sp, #0xc8
        ... <snip> ...
```

For more information, read builtin documentation, for example with
`ipython`:

```python
    >>> bap?
```

## Using from shell

Bap is shipped with `bap` utility that can disassemble files, and
printout dumps in different formats, including plain text, json, dot,
html. The example of `bap` output is:

```asm
  begin(to_uchar)
      0000a004: 04 b0 2d e5    str r11, [sp, #-4]! ; STR_PRE_IMM(SP,R11,SP,0xfffffffc,0xe,Nil)
      0000a008: 00 b0 8d e2    add r11, sp, #0x0   ; ADDri(R11,SP,0x0,0xe,Nil,Nil)
      0000a00c: 0c d0 4d e2    sub sp, sp, #0xc    ; SUBri(SP,SP,0xc,0xe,Nil,Nil)
      0000a010: 00 30 a0 e1    mov r3, r0          ; MOVr(R3,R0,0xe,Nil,Nil)
      0000a014: 05 30 4b e5    strb r3, [r11, #-5] ; STRBi12(R3,R11,0xfffffffb,0xe,Nil)
      0000a018: 05 30 5b e5    ldrb r3, [r11, #-5] ; LDRBi12(R3,R11,0xfffffffb,0xe,Nil)
      0000a01c: 03 00 a0 e1    mov r0, r3          ; MOVr(R0,R3,0xe,Nil,Nil)
      0000a020: 00 d0 8b e2    add sp, r11, #0x0   ; ADDri(SP,R11,0x0,0xe,Nil,Nil)
      0000a024: 00 08 bd e8    ldm sp!, {r11}      ; LDMIA_UPD(SP,SP,0xe,Nil,R11)
      0000a028: 1e ff 2f e1    bx lr               ; BX_RET(0xe,Nil)
  end(to_uchar)
```

```ocaml
  begin(to_uchar) {
    mem := mem with [SP - 0x4:32, el]:u32 <- R11
    SP := SP - 0x4:32
    R11 := SP
    SP := SP - 0xC:32
    R3 := R0
    mem := mem with [R11 - 0x5:32, el]:u8 <- low:8[R3]
    temp_2303 := mem[R11 - 0x5:32, el]:u8
    R3 := pad:32[temp_2303]
    R0 := R3
    SP := R11
    orig_base_2309 := SP
    R11 := mem[orig_base_2309, el]:u32
    SP := SP + 0x4:32
    jmp LR
  }
```

Also we're shipping a `bap-mc` executable that can disassemble
arbitrary strings and output them in a plethora of formats. Read
`bap-mc --help` for more information. `bap-byteweight` utility can be
used to evaluate our `byteweight` algorithm for finding symbols inside
the binary. It is also a supporting toolkit for byteweight
infrastructure, it can download, create and install binary signatures,
used for identification.


## Using from other languages

BAP exposes most of its functionality using `JSON`-based RPC protocol,
specified
[Public API Draft](https://github.com/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap/wiki/Public-API-%5Bdraft%5D)
doument. The protocol is implemented by `bap-server` program that is
shipped with bap by default. You can talk with server using `HTTP`
protocol, or extend it with any other transporting protocol you would
like.

## Extending BAP

We're always welcome for any contributions. If you want to add new
code, or fix a bug, feel free to clone us, and create a pull request.

But BAP can also be extended in a non invasive way, using plugin
system. That means, that you can use `bap` library, to extend the
`bap` library! See our
[blog](http://binaryanalysisplatform.github.io/bap_plugins/) for more
information.

## Learning BAP

Other than [API](http://binaryanalysisplatform.github.io/bap/api/v0.9.7/Bap.Std.html) documentation, we have [blog](http://binaryanalysisplatform.github.io/bap_plugins/) and
[wiki](https://github.com/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap/wiki/), where you
can find some useful information. Also, we have a permanently manned
chat in case of emergency. Look at the badge on top of the README file,
and feel free to join.

# License

Please see the `LICENSE` file for licensing information.
